or call +44 (0) 33 3130 6809
Newsroom / Customer Service and Support / Press Release
STAMFORD, Conn. June 10, 2025
By 2027, 50% of organizations that expected to significantly reduce their customer service workforce will abandon these plans, according to Gartner, Inc. This shift comes as many companies struggle to achieve their “agent-less” staffing goals, highlighting the complexities and challenges of transitioning to AI-driven customer service models.
A Gartner poll of 163 customer service and support leaders conducted in March 2025 found 95% of customer service leaders plan to retain human agents to strategically define AI's role. This approach ensures a “digital first, but not digital only” strategy, avoiding the pitfalls of a hasty transition to an agentless model.
“While AI offers significant potential to transform customer service, it is not a panacea. The human touch remains irreplaceable in many interactions, and organizations must balance technology with human empathy and understanding,” said Kathy Ross, Senior Director Analyst in the Gartner Customer Service & Support practice. “A hybrid approach, where AI and human agents work in tandem, is the most effective strategy for delivering exceptional customer experiences.”
Organizations should clearly define AI's role, prioritize strategic objectives, and determine the roles of human agents. This strategic alignment is essential to enhance customer service without compromising quality, ensuring that AI serves as a complement rather than a replacement for human interaction.
As the landscape of customer service continues to evolve, integrating AI with human capabilities is essential. This will not only improve service quality but also ensure that organizations remain agile and responsive to customer needs.
Gartner clients can read more in “Rehiring Human Agents to Replace AI is 2025’s Latest Trend.”
The customer service and support function is vital to maintaining customer loyalty and influencing brand perceptions. Gartner for Customer Service & Support Leaders provides indispensable insights, advice and tools needed to achieve service and support leaders’ mission-critical priorities, specifically improving the customer experience while managing costs; designing an optimal service channel strategy; measuring and reducing customer effort; and how to hire, develop and retain high-potential frontline talent.
Follow news and update from the Gartner Customer Service & Support Practice on X and LinkedIn using #GartnerCSS. Members of the media can find additional information and insights in the Gartner Customer Service & Support Newsroom.
Elizabeth Bishop
Gartner
elizabeth.bishop@gartner.com
Jordan Brackenbury
Gartner
jordan.brackenbury@gartner.com
Conference Highlight | Jun 10, 2025
Information Technology
Conference Highlight | Jun 9, 2025
Information Technology
Announcement | Jun 9, 2025
Information Technology
Gartner delivers actionable, objective insight that drives smarter decisions and stronger performance on an organization’s mission-critical priorities.
©2025 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.